# How work on this document:

This is a LaTeX-Project, which consists of multiple content files ending with .tex. These files contain the text and formatting commands which result in a PDF documented produced by latex. Basically all of the content in the .tex files can be edited using a normal text editor, so feel free to edit the document by making changes to the .tex files and committing your changes to the repository.

If you however want to see the rendered result in form of a PDF file you will have to follow the steps described below:

## LaTeX-Setup:

### Prerequisites:

- Install Visual-Studio-Code on your machine.
  - On Linux: Use the .deb package version isntead of the Flatpak or Snap, otherwise the Remote Containers extension wont work properly.
- Install Remote-Container-Extension in Visual-Studio-Code.
  - Link: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers
- Install Docker-Host on your machine.
  - On Windows: use Docker-Desktop
  - On Linux: Use Docker-Engine
    - add your user to the unix group "docker". On Ubuntu you can use this command: `sudo usermod -aG docker $USER`. You will have to log out and back in for it to take effect.

See Remote-Container-Extension docs (link above) for more information on how to setup VS-Code for this.

### Start Latex-Environment:

This project contains all the information needed to automatically setup the docker container with all required packages to work on the Latex document. Proceed as follows:

1. Start VS-Code
1. Press F1
1. Type "Open Folder in Container"
1. Select "Remote Containers: Open Folder in Container" from the list of suggestions.
1. Select the local git repository folder
1. VS-Code restarts and builds a docker container ready for working on this project. Wait for it to be done.
1. Open a .tex-File (e.g. main.tex)
1. Click on the Preview-Icon in the top right corner. (That's the one with the magnification-lens)
1. Enjoy PDF-View of the document.

### Editing the document:

Editing is done by changing the content in the .tex files. While working, a lot of other files are generated by LaTeX next to the tex files. You can ignore all of these safely, just focus on the .tex-Files.

If you scroll the PDF and find a place that you would like to edit, use CTRL+Click on the place to let VS-Code open the correct .tex file for you and scroll to and highlight the paragraph that belongs to the portion you have clicked. Then make you editions as desired.

If you save changes to .tex files, the PDF should automatically be refreshed with your changes included.

### Anchor comments:

The VS-Code setup of this repo includes an extension called Anchor-Comments. This can be used to put comments into the document that can easily be found by other users. All anchor comments in the whole project are listed in the sidebar tab with the anchor icon.

Use these icons to put comments into the document that require attention of other editors or must be found easily later on to continue working on the portion where they were placed.

Insert comments into .tex files by starting a text line with a %-character and one of the anchor keywords listed in this documentation: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ExodiusStudios.comment-anchors

